1. you need to tell a story i.e. link the information between the slides and don’t just have random slides - e.g. background to the topic, what are the applications / markets, what other have done, what I have done, analysis, conclusions (+ next steps).

2. Less is more. Less information is easier for people to take in. Pictures are always worth a thousand or more words. Movies are even better but you need to check they work on the software platform as it is easy for things to fail if you haven’t practiced. I frequently use slides with a single word or a few words for high impact and to make a point. People remember that as most folk are too scared to do it. Single words or phrases doesn’t work for everything but less is more certainly does.

3. You need to provide the information that the audience need or want to know and not what you know. There is a subtle difference but try to think from someone who doesn’t know anything about the topic and what they need to know rather than someone who knows the topic well.

4. Don’t write in sentences - bullet points with few words and key information is much more important than any correct grammar - again less is more. Never have more than 2 lines of text and bullet point the start to draw the eye to each piece of information. If there is more than 2 lines then most people will not be able to read the information in the limited time (try it - it is obvious once you look at other peoples mistakes when you can’t write down what they are presenting).

5. Always talk through what you have so read out the x and y-axis of a graph as it draws attention to that and you can then explain what is in a graph. Also figures are good but you may want to keep adding information in steps so it is easier to identify key information rather than have it all at one go when no one will see any detail. Again stepping through and pointing to things as you read them out draws attention and people take in more information. It also guarantees that you provide enough time for people to absorb what is on the slide.

6. Give yourself sufficient time for each slide - at least 1 minute per slide and perhaps more if required. You need to think again from someone who has never seen the slide and how long it will take them to read everything then think about it before working out what is valuable information and what is rubbish or noise. Ideally you don’t want to have any rubbish or noise if you have thought through what the audience needs but you may need to provide detail for some that others will not read so you also need to provide sufficient time for people to get through everything and have some time to think and analyse.

7. The template and background should not distract from the main messages on the slide. Any logs should be sufficiently small that you can make the key information as large as possible to be legible.

8. Make sure your slides are legible at the back of a large lecture theatre or hall. For the key and main information you need simple bold fonts that are sufficiently large to be very legible in all the places you might have to present. Don’t use fancy fonts that are difficult to read. So for graphs thick colours lines helps enormously.